·Objective of The Study:

Oil and gas companies offer a variety of fuel grades to their customers when it comes to gasoline and diesel fuels. For Shell gas stations in Tunisia, they offer 
gasoline vehicles two types of gasoline: regular unleaded gasoline distinguished by its green colored pump and a premium version of gasoline called Shell V-Power known
by its red colored pump.

Premium gasoline fuels are claimed to be more efficient when it comes to fuel consumption and are known to offer a better engine protection compared to 
regular unleaded gasoline. This is due to the additives that these premium fuels contain which are not found, or found in smaller portions, in regular unleaded
gasoline. Given these advantages of premium gasoline, it comes with a higher price.

This study aims to test whether Shell V-Power actually offers a better a fuel efficiency when compared to Shell regular unleaded gasoline and to verify if
the fuel economy benefits of Shell V-Power, if they exist, actually offset its extra cost.

For this test, I will be using my car as a test subject and driving through multiple driving and environmental conditions to see the different effects of these 
conditions on the fuel efficiency returned by the two Shell fuel types.

o Questions to be answered in this analysis:

The main question that I am trying to find an answer for in this study is the following:

– Taking my car as a test subject, does Shell V-Power Gasoline provide an overall better fuel efficiency than Shell Regular Unleaded Gasoline?

**

Other questions that I will try to answer as well are:

– What is the impact of temperature and humidity on car fuel consumption? In addition, which fuel type provides a better fuel efficiency at severe conditions 
(high temperatures and high humidity)?

– How much does driving on bumpy roads and/or driving aggressively affect fuel consumption? Which fuel type performs better in these conditions?

– For each type of gasoline, what is the driving speed sweet spot that provides the best fuel consumption?

·Collecting the Data:

To collect the data required for this study, I had to make sure that my car is well-maintained and will have a stable condition throughout the data collection phase.
For this, I did an oil change, replaced air and oil filters, greased the battery poles, checked my tires pressure, coolant level, brake fluid quality and level, tires 
and brake pads conditions. I kept checking these areas as long as I was collecting the data points to ensure that the MPG values returned after each trip are mostly
a result of the fuel type, driving and environmental conditions and not my car condition. In addition, when filling up on gas, I made sure that the gas tank level at
the time of the fill-up is at the ¼ level or less and that I alternate between the two types of Shell gasoline with each fill-up operation. I made sure this condition 
is present so the tank contains at least 75% of one of the fuels after each fill-up.
